README.md, before:


# sticky-table-headers.js [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/bsara/sticky-table-headers.js.svg?branch=master&style=flat-sqaure)](https://travis-ci.org/bsara/sticky-table-headers.js)


[![CPOL v1.02 License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-CPOL--1.02-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/bsara/sticky-table-headers.js/blob/master/LICENSE.md)

[![NPM Package](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/sticky-table-headers.js.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sticky-table-headers.js)&nbsp;
[![Bower Package](https://img.shields.io/bower/v/sticky-table-headers.js.svg?style=flat-square)](http://bower.io/search/?q=sticky-table-headers.js)


Sticky table headers done right, with native JS and CSS, no extra libraries needed. This is a super easy-to-use library that can be used without writing a single bit of JavaScript yourself!

Includes support for AMD, CommonJS, and global inclusion via an HTML script tag.



## Install

- **NPM:** `$ npm install --save sticky-table-headers.js`
- **Bower:** `$ bower install --save sticky-table-headers.js`
- **CDN - Auto Init (minified):**
  - `<script src="//unpkg.com/sticky-table-headers.js@0.2.1/dist/sticky-table-headers.auto-init.min.js"></script>`
  - `<link type="text/css" src="//unpkg.com/sticky-table-headers.js@0.2.1/dist/sticky-table-headers.min.css">`
- **CDN - Auto Init (not minified):**
  - `<script src="//unpkg.com/sticky-table-headers.js@0.2.1/dist/sticky-table-headers.auto-init.js"></script>`
  - `<link type="text/css" src="//unpkg.com/sticky-table-headers.js@0.2.1/dist/sticky-table-headers.css">`
- **CDN - Manual Init (minified):**
  - `<script src="//unpkg.com/sticky-table-headers.js@0.2.1/dist/sticky-table-headers.min.js"></script>`
  - `<link type="text/css" src="//unpkg.com/sticky-table-headers.js@0.2.1/dist/sticky-table-headers.min.css">`
- **CDN - Manual Init (not minified):**
  - `<script src="//unpkg.com/sticky-table-headers.js@0.2.1"></script>`
  - `<link type="text/css" src="//unpkg.com/sticky-table-headers.js@0.2.1/dist/sticky-table-headers.css">`
- [**Download**](https://github.com/bsara/sticky-table-headers.js/releases)


## Features

- Built with fully native, pure JavaScript and CSS! No extra libraries needed!
- Super lightweight! (Only ~7 kB minified)
- No additional HTML tag creation...so that the DOM elements you expect, are always going to be the DOM elements that you have.
- No additional JavaScript necessary for usage! (Perfect for single page applications or static sites)
    - Uses HTML tag `class` attribute to indicate tables with sticky headers.
- [Auto initilaization version][auto-init-example] available for simple uses, and a [manual initialization version][manual-init-example] available for more complicated uses.
- Allows for table resizing even after you've begun scrolling through table.
- Automatically finds first scrollable parent element, so that you don't have to!
- Ability to manually specify scrollable parent element.
- Support for...
    - AMD
    - CommonJS
    - Global HTML script tag


<br/>
<br/>


# Documentation

- [Changelog](https://github.com/bsara/sticky-table-headers.js/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)


---


### Table of Contents

- [Code Samples](#code-samples)
- [Including the Library Auto Initialization Version in Your Project](#including-the-library-auto-initialization-version-in-your-project)
    - [Include as AMD Module](#include-as-amd-module)
    - [Include as CommonJS Module](#include-as-commonjs-module)
    - [Include via HTML Script Tag](#include-via-html-script-tag)
- [Including the Library Manual Initialization Version in Your Project](#including-the-library-manual-initialization-version-in-your-project)
    - [Include as AMD Module](#include-as-amd-module)
    - [Include as CommonJS Module](#include-as-commonjs-module)
    - [Include via HTML Script Tag](#include-via-html-script-tag)
- [Usage](#usage)
    - [Auto Initialization](#auto-initialization)
    - [Manual Initialization](#manual-initialization)



---


## Code Samples

- [How to use without writing any JavaScript][auto-init-example]
- [Auto Initialization][auto-init-example]
- [Manual Initialization][manual-init-example]


---


## Including the Library's Auto Initialization Version in Your Project

#### Include as AMD Module

```javascript
define([ 'sticky-table-headers.auto' ], function(STH) {
  ...
});
```


#### Include as CommonJS Module

```javascript
var STH = require('sticky-table-headers.auto');
...
```


#### Include via HTML Script Tag

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="sticky-table-headers.auto.min.js" />
```


---


## Including the Library's Manual Initialization Version in Your Project

#### Include as AMD Module

```javascript
define([ 'sticky-table-headers' ], function(STH) {
  STH.manager.init();
  ...
});
```


#### Include as CommonJS Module

```javascript
var STH = require('sticky-table-headers');
STH.manager.init();
...
```


#### Include via HTML Script Tag

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="sticky-table-headers.auto.min.js" />
<script type="text/javascript">
  ...
  STH.manager.init();
  ...
</script>
```


---



## Usage

### Auto Initialization

To use auto initialization, you must [include the file `sticky-table-headers.auto.js`
(or `sticky-table-headers.auto.min.js`) in your project](#including-the-library-auto-initialization-version-in-your-project).
This contains code that will automatically call [`STH.manager.init()`][sth-manager-init] once the
page has finished loading.

Because auto initialization takes place after the page has finished loading, **if any
additional tables requiring sticky headers are added after the page has loaded, they
will not automatically be loaded** by the library**. You can, however, call
[`STH.manager.reinit()`][sth-manager-reinit] if you don't want to manually locate each new table and add
it to the `STH.manager` object (though it would be much more performant to add each
table one by one to `STH.manager`, see the [`STH.manager`][sth-manager] docs for more details).

**Auto Initialization in Action:** [JSBin Code Example][auto-init-example]


### Manual Initialization

Manually initializing the sticky headers is available if you want to specify exactly
when to initialize all sticky headers, or if you don't want to use the [manager][global-manager] at
all.

To manually initialize **ALL** sticky table headers found on a page, simply call
[`STH.manager.init()`][sth-manager-init] after those tables have finished loading.

To manually initialize sticky table headers for a single table, simply call
[`STH.manager.addStickyHeaderToTable(tableElement, [scrollableElement])`][sth-manager-add]
after that the table has finished loading. If you don't want to use the manager to manage
your sticky header tables, you can also initialize a sticky table header by doing the
following (See [`StickyTableHeader`][sth] for details):

```javascript
var myStickyTableHeader = new StickyTableHeader(tableElement, scrollableElement)
```

**Manual Initialization in Action:** [JSBin Code Example][manual-init-example]



<br/>

---

<br/>



## Contributing

See [contribution documentation page](https://github.com/bsara/sticky-table-headers.js/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.




[auto-init-example]:   http://jsbin.com/lizoyaw/edit?html,output   "Auto Init Example (JSBin)"
[manual-init-example]: http://jsbin.com/fuxuro/edit?html,js,output "Manual Init Example (JSBin)"

[global-manager]: http://bsara.github.io/sticky-table-headers.js/docs#global-manager "Global Sticky Table Headers Manager"

[sth]: http://bsara.github.io/sticky-table-headers.js/docs#sth "StickyTableHeader Object Definition"

[sth-manager]:        http://bsara.github.io/sticky-table-headers.js/docs#sth-manager        "StickyTableHeaderManager Object Definition"
[sth-manager-init]:   http://bsara.github.io/sticky-table-headers.js/docs#sth-manager-init   "StickyTableHeaderManager.prototype.init"
[sth-manager-reinit]: http://bsara.github.io/sticky-table-headers.js/docs#sth-manager-reinit "StickyTableHeaderManager.prototype.reinit"
[sth-manager-add]:    http://bsara.github.io/sticky-table-headers.js/docs#sth-manager-add    "StickyTableHeaderManager.prototype.addStickyHeaderToTable"

Commit message:

added position sticky disclaimer in readme and added scss version of css

README.md, after:


# sticky-table-headers.js [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/bsara/sticky-table-headers.js.svg?branch=master&style=flat-sqaure)](https://travis-ci.org/bsara/sticky-table-headers.js)


[![CPOL v1.02 License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-CPOL--1.02-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/bsara/sticky-table-headers.js/blob/master/LICENSE.md)

[![NPM Package](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/sticky-table-headers.js.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sticky-table-headers.js)&nbsp;
[![Bower Package](https://img.shields.io/bower/v/sticky-table-headers.js.svg?style=flat-square)](http://bower.io/search/?q=sticky-table-headers.js)

> **IMPORTANT:** You can now create any element with sticky properties using the new CSS `position: sticky;` feature! While
this library may continue to be a good option for older browsers, you should verify that the new CSS sticky feature
does not meet your needs before using this library. That all said, this library will still continue to be supported
for the forseeable future.

>For more information about CSS sticky elements, check out [this short CSS-Tricks.com article](https://css-tricks.com/position-sticky-2/).

Sticky table headers done right, with native JS and CSS, no extra libraries needed. This is a super easy-to-use library that can be used without writing a single bit of JavaScript yourself!

Includes support for AMD, CommonJS, and global inclusion via an HTML script tag.



## Install

- **NPM:** `$ npm install --save sticky-table-headers.js`
- **Bower:** `$ bower install --save sticky-table-headers.js`
- **CDN - Auto Init (minified):**
  - `<script src="//unpkg.com/sticky-table-headers.js@0.2.2/dist/sticky-table-headers.auto-init.min.js"></script>`
  - `<link type="text/css" src="//unpkg.com/sticky-table-headers.js@0.2.2/dist/sticky-table-headers.min.css">`
- **CDN - Auto Init (not minified):**
  - `<script src="//unpkg.com/sticky-table-headers.js@0.2.2/dist/sticky-table-headers.auto-init.js"></script>`
  - `<link type="text/css" src="//unpkg.com/sticky-table-headers.js@0.2.2/dist/sticky-table-headers.css">`
- **CDN - Manual Init (minified):**
  - `<script src="//unpkg.com/sticky-table-headers.js@0.2.2/dist/sticky-table-headers.min.js"></script>`
  - `<link type="text/css" src="//unpkg.com/sticky-table-headers.js@0.2.2/dist/sticky-table-headers.min.css">`
- **CDN - Manual Init (not minified):**
  - `<script src="//unpkg.com/sticky-table-headers.js@0.2.2"></script>`
  - `<link type="text/css" src="//unpkg.com/sticky-table-headers.js@0.2.2/dist/sticky-table-headers.css">`
- [**Download**](https://github.com/bsara/sticky-table-headers.js/releases)


## Features

- Built with fully native, pure JavaScript and CSS! No extra libraries needed!
- Super lightweight! (Only ~7 kB minified)
- No additional HTML tag creation...so that the DOM elements you expect, are always going to be the DOM elements that you have.
- No additional JavaScript necessary for usage! (Perfect for single page applications or static sites)
    - Uses HTML tag `class` attribute to indicate tables with sticky headers.
- [Auto initilaization version][auto-init-example] available for simple uses, and a [manual initialization version][manual-init-example] available for more complicated uses.
- Allows for table resizing even after you've begun scrolling through table.
- Automatically finds first scrollable parent element, so that you don't have to!
- Ability to manually specify scrollable parent element.
- Support for...
    - AMD
    - CommonJS
    - Global HTML script tag


<br/>
<br/>


# Documentation

- [Changelog](https://github.com/bsara/sticky-table-headers.js/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)


---


### Table of Contents

- [Code Samples](#code-samples)
- [Including the Library Auto Initialization Version in Your Project](#including-the-library-auto-initialization-version-in-your-project)
    - [Include as AMD Module](#include-as-amd-module)
    - [Include as CommonJS Module](#include-as-commonjs-module)
    - [Include via HTML Script Tag](#include-via-html-script-tag)
- [Including the Library Manual Initialization Version in Your Project](#including-the-library-manual-initialization-version-in-your-project)
    - [Include as AMD Module](#include-as-amd-module)
    - [Include as CommonJS Module](#include-as-commonjs-module)
    - [Include via HTML Script Tag](#include-via-html-script-tag)
- [Usage](#usage)
    - [Auto Initialization](#auto-initialization)
    - [Manual Initialization](#manual-initialization)



---


## Code Samples

- [How to use without writing any JavaScript][auto-init-example]
- [Auto Initialization][auto-init-example]
- [Manual Initialization][manual-init-example]


---


## Including the Library's Auto Initialization Version in Your Project

#### Include as AMD Module

```javascript
define([ 'sticky-table-headers.auto' ], function(STH) {
  ...
});
```


#### Include as CommonJS Module

```javascript
var STH = require('sticky-table-headers.auto');
...
```


#### Include via HTML Script Tag

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="sticky-table-headers.auto.min.js" />
```


---


## Including the Library's Manual Initialization Version in Your Project

#### Include as AMD Module

```javascript
define([ 'sticky-table-headers' ], function(STH) {
  STH.manager.init();
  ...
});
```


#### Include as CommonJS Module

```javascript
var STH = require('sticky-table-headers');
STH.manager.init();
...
```


#### Include via HTML Script Tag

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="sticky-table-headers.auto.min.js" />
<script type="text/javascript">
  ...
  STH.manager.init();
  ...
</script>
```


---



## Usage

### Auto Initialization

To use auto initialization, you must [include the file `sticky-table-headers.auto.js`
(or `sticky-table-headers.auto.min.js`) in your project](#including-the-library-auto-initialization-version-in-your-project).
This contains code that will automatically call [`STH.manager.init()`][sth-manager-init] once the
page has finished loading.

Because auto initialization takes place after the page has finished loading, **if any
additional tables requiring sticky headers are added after the page has loaded, they
will not automatically be loaded** by the library**. You can, however, call
[`STH.manager.reinit()`][sth-manager-reinit] if you don't want to manually locate each new table and add
it to the `STH.manager` object (though it would be much more performant to add each
table one by one to `STH.manager`, see the [`STH.manager`][sth-manager] docs for more details).

**Auto Initialization in Action:** [JSBin Code Example][auto-init-example]


### Manual Initialization

Manually initializing the sticky headers is available if you want to specify exactly
when to initialize all sticky headers, or if you don't want to use the [manager][global-manager] at
all.

To manually initialize **ALL** sticky table headers found on a page, simply call
[`STH.manager.init()`][sth-manager-init] after those tables have finished loading.

To manually initialize sticky table headers for a single table, simply call
[`STH.manager.addStickyHeaderToTable(tableElement, [scrollableElement])`][sth-manager-add]
after that the table has finished loading. If you don't want to use the manager to manage
your sticky header tables, you can also initialize a sticky table header by doing the
following (See [`StickyTableHeader`][sth] for details):

```javascript
var myStickyTableHeader = new StickyTableHeader(tableElement, scrollableElement)
```

**Manual Initialization in Action:** [JSBin Code Example][manual-init-example]



<br/>

---

<br/>



## Contributing

See [contribution documentation page](https://github.com/bsara/sticky-table-headers.js/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.




[auto-init-example]:   http://jsbin.com/lizoyaw/edit?html,output   "Auto Init Example (JSBin)"
[manual-init-example]: http://jsbin.com/fuxuro/edit?html,js,output "Manual Init Example (JSBin)"

[global-manager]: http://bsara.github.io/sticky-table-headers.js/docs#global-manager "Global Sticky Table Headers Manager"

[sth]: http://bsara.github.io/sticky-table-headers.js/docs#sth "StickyTableHeader Object Definition"

[sth-manager]:        http://bsara.github.io/sticky-table-headers.js/docs#sth-manager        "StickyTableHeaderManager Object Definition"
[sth-manager-init]:   http://bsara.github.io/sticky-table-headers.js/docs#sth-manager-init   "StickyTableHeaderManager.prototype.init"
[sth-manager-reinit]: http://bsara.github.io/sticky-table-headers.js/docs#sth-manager-reinit "StickyTableHeaderManager.prototype.reinit"
[sth-manager-add]:    http://bsara.github.io/sticky-table-headers.js/docs#sth-manager-add    "StickyTableHeaderManager.prototype.addStickyHeaderToTable"
